# Week 1: Getting started

This week's goal was brushing up on Rust concepts and getting started with Solana's programming model and tooling.

The week started with a talk by [Chase](https://twitter.com/therealchaseeb) who works at Solana in developer relations.
He talked about the Solana ecosystem, the kind of growth it saw over the last year especially from India and where he
sees it going from here. A lot to be optimistic and excited about! Do follow him to keep up with the ecosystem and to
learn how to get started with Solana. Also checkout [SOL dev_](https://soldev.app/) for everything you will need for
developing on Solana.

We also got to know more about the fellowship, it's structure and goals from [Neil](https://twitter.com/neilshroff) and
[Gnana Lakshmi](https://twitter.com/gyanlakshmi).

## Rust

I knew a little Rust before starting the fellowship. I like learning new languages and Rust was the one I chose to learn
in 2021. Like most resolutions, it wasn't very successful. But I did end up using it in a small side project and also
to know about Solana.

For the last 2 weeks, I have been brushing up on Rust. I enjoyed going over exercises on
[Rustlings](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustlings) and [Exercism](https://exercism.org/tracks/rust). They both have
short progressively tricky exercises which you can easily do on your local machine. Simple and engaging. If anyone
prefers video, there are good resources for that as well:
[Rust Programming Tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLVvjrrRCBy2JSHf9tGxGKJ-bYAN_uDCUL) and
[Introduction to Rust for Solana](https://questb.uk/quest/introduction-to-rust-for-solana-3b5a)

## Solana

Last week I read
[Explaining Solana with The Simpsons](https://learn.figment.io/tutorials/explaining-solana-with-the-simpsons). It's one
of the best introductions to Solana and it's innovations that I have come across till date. I had gone through the
official blog posts written by Solana devs to understand why it's so fast and secure, but they were a bit difficult to
grasp for me. But after reading this post, it started to make sense. Kudos to
[Jonathan Ferreira](https://twitter.com/JSoufer) for putting it together. 

This week was about learning the [programming model](https://docs.solana.com/developing/programming-model/overview),
[how to deploy to Solana](https://openquest.xyz/quest/deploying-the-program-on-to-solana) and [how to work with
interfaces to Solana like the spl token cli](https://openquest.xyz/quest/create_crypto_with_solana_cli). It was a fun
experience to actually use the technologies that you read about and see how such are made and deployed.

---

Overall it was a great week as I got to get my hands dirty. That's what works for me. Looking forward to diving deeper
into the ecosystem in the coming weeks and most importantly shipping cool stuff!
